---
id: 2022-07-20
created_date: 07/12/2022
updated_date: 07/12/2022
type: note
---

#  2022-07-20
- **🏷️Tags** :   
[ ](#anki-card)
## 📝 Notes

## Summary

I shadowed this interview

<A brief description of why you have made the recommendation. This should correlate to the rating and analysis of the different areas>

## Question(s) asked:

<List all the questions asked in the interview>

## Evaluation

Numerical scores correspond to the following qualitative assessments:

( 1 - Very Poor, 2 - Poor, 3 - Fair, 4 - Good, 5 - Excellent )

Area: Problem Definition/Comprehension

Score: (1-5): 5

Justification: Matthew asked pointed questions about unstated assumptions in the question prompt. His questions got at the nuance of the optimal solution (left, right pointers to track window size). He was very methodical in presenting his thoughts regarding the question and his reasoning was laid out in a clear logical sequence. 

---

Area: Coding Proficiency/Robustness

Score: (1-5): 5

Justification: Matthew arrived at the optimal solution with fluent syntax. He thought through the exact data structure to use and was able to combine atomic and complex data to present his solution. 

---

Area: Algorithm Efficiency + Analysis

Score: (1-5): 5

Justification: Matthew's algorithm executed in linear time (which is optimal for this problem). He was aware of specific implementations of data structures in Java which he leveraged to minimize time complexity constraints. 


---

Area: Communication Skills + Structured Thinking

Score: (1-5): 4

Justification: Matthew was able to very clearly communicate his problem solving techniques. It appears that he is quite adept at explaining/structuring his thinking when grounded in familiar technical environments. Once Matthew spends more time in a customer-facing role, I would expect his ability to talk through technical details in "plain-English" to improve. 

---

Area: Debugging/Troubleshooting

Score: (1-5): 5 

Justification: Matthew debugged/walked through his code in real-time and was effective in spotting small nuances that could have presented pitfalls for the rest of his solution.  


## Questions/Thoughts

I would recommend hiring Matthew. He appears to be the right fit culturally and clearly research C3AI prior to his interview. He referred back to company descriptions made by prior interviewers and was engaged to learn more about building apps on the C3 platform. 


## 🔗 Links
- 