 Qualified Benefit Plan

Thanks for sending this to us.  We appreciate the opportunity to work with you.

AGL & GEL GROUP HOLDING LLC

1.  Owners are shown with targeted, tax-deductible contributions of 400K a year.

Please keep in mind that the Pension Plan contributions can be both scalable (the plan could be designed to target any lower desired contribution level) and flexible in an amount from year to year.

400k contributions for how long?

	are these 400k that would instead have to be owed to as taxes? i.e., can the contributions be made pre tax?

	it appears that the policy period would be 5 years?

	over 5 years total premium payments are $2 MM, and at year 5 i only get back 350? where is the remainder?

how much do we get back?



2.  The life insurance strategy illustrated would be to pay 5 premiums through tax-deductible plan contributions and then remove the policy from the plan by depositing an amount equal to the policy's discounted fair market value into the plan (as permitted by Rev. Proc. 2005-25 and DOL PTE 92-6).  

Life Insurance Strategy: 

400k yearly contribution?

	Make 5 premium payments in the form of contributions to a life insurance plan. 

	is the 400k divided into these five premium payments per year?

	Remove policy from plan (when?)? what does it mean to remove policy? Is this a liquidation event? what is the basis on the policy? what is owed? 

	e.g., ? if i contribute 400k and such amount at the end of year 1 is worth 410k, the fmv would be what? FMV at t0 of stream is i ... n / discount rate

For Anna, the fair market value of the policy in the 5th policy year is estimated to be 289,037.  

For Gerald, the fair market value of the policy in the 5th policy year is estimated to be 262,323. 

The policy would then be owned personally and could provide for tax-free income and a completely tax-free death benefit as a supplement to amounts accumulated in Plan/IRA investment accounts.

	how? is the implication that i would own the policy free and clear of the plan?

	could i then get rid of the plan after year 5?

	

3.  The life insurance policy illustrated is Pacific Life's Pacific Discovery Xelerator IUL2 (updated for AG49A).  

For Anna, The policy is illustrated to both an income focus (showing 52,898 tax-free income from ages 72 through 95 plus a residual death benefit of $143,575 at age 95 for a total of $1,413,127 provided tax-free from the policy) and a legacy focus (tax-free death benefit of $1,359,999 at age 95).

For Gerald, The policy is illustrated to both an income focus (showing 47,646 tax-free income from ages 77 through 95 plus a residual death benefit of $133,236 at age 95 for a total of $1,038,510 provided tax-free from the policy) and a legacy focus (tax-free death benefit of $930,828 at age 95).

Please let me know if you have any questions or would like to schedule a time to review. 

Page 14: 

Life Insurance increases current tax deductible contribution limit. Fund life insurance policy for 5 years and then shut it down. 

tax-free death benefits. moving the policy from the plan to the individual is the super Roth concept. 

Trust: 

Investments + Insurance (5.1% return) => Once the policy is moved personally from Trust to person. This conversion is what 