ZIPPY

dust so it's on the More or High

mixture. Stir until the

oursin, add it now

If using the Bour

let Cancel to turn the pot off

ALFREDO

Alfredo sauce is one of those things that encapsulates what this book is with the basic ingredients of butter, Parmesan, and cream, the iconic rich. But what puts this one over the top is the addition of all about: single Italian white sauce is indeed on of garlic powder and the extra sinful chry But thic Herb Cheese), Naturally, this dish is perfect when served over paste of Boursin (or my

Prep Time 5 MIN

Sauté Time 5 MIN

Pressure Building Tie 10-15 MIN

Pressure Cook Time 5 MIN

1 cup chicken or garlic broth (e.g Garlic Better Than Bouillon)

Total Time 30 м

2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) salted butter, divided

2 pounds boneless, skinless chicken breasts, sliced into cutlets about 1/4 inch thick and then into 1/4-inch strips

4 teaspoons garlic powderdivided

1 cup heavy cream or half-and-half

2 tablespoons all-purpose, coconutor quinoa flour

1 cup grated Parmesan chees

1 (5.2-ouncel packa

cheese lan

Garlic Herb Ches

to chunks laptimal

cut inte

see Jeff's Tipi

by cracked black pe

Freshly cra

(optional)

Step 4 after the cream mixture.

Halve all of the ingredients, except for the broth-keep it at 1 cup so the pot properly comes to pressure. Cook times remain the same.

Meanwhile in a large bowl whisk together the cre flour, Parmesan, and remaning

Add the butter to the Instant Pat and hit Sauté and Adjust so it's on the More or High setting. Once melted, add the chicken and sauté until pinkish-white in color, about 3 minutes.

Add the broth and 2 teaspoons of the garlic powder to the pot. Stir wellSecure the lid, move the valve to the sealing positionhit Cancel, and then hit Manual or Pressure Cook on High Pressure for 5 minutes. Quick release when done.