---
id: 20231003
created_date: 03/10/2023
updated_date: 03/10/2023
type: daily-note
---

# 20231003
- **ðŸ·ï¸Tags** : #10-2023  

## Notes

#c3 


> [!info] DSU
> 
> {@meeting}
> 
> > GURU DSU
> > 
	>> waiting to get log output of new error.
	>> SE GLobal Meeting
	>> 
 #todo get access
	>> there is a management metrics dashboard
		>> information leaking
		>> openair time sheets - ensure weekly 
		>> metrics include community posts
		>> application with dashboard for `app.powerbi`

 competency matrix

keep up to date. new hires that go through training should check all the base-line competencies. 

#todo any skills that are missing provide feedback

> badging report

>> generative ai report was shown
>> objective was to wrap up full course by the end of October
>>> naresh is making a bid to go through in person training for genAi

> year end banding

> preliminary rating

>> stack racks within peer groups
>> who is a promotion rec 6 months now
>> non promotion recommendations with comp requests

> open to adjustment through the end of the quarter. 

comp adjustments and promotions limited to people with 4/5s -> these are independent of the rating. 

managers should arrange for their solution engineers to perform at the level where they want to be. 

> sprint report 

for p in P -> get sprint report

pl in PL -> sends *risks*, *achievements*, *remaining work* 

will be done each sprint

20231003_11:30:20

> [!info] SE Global Staff Meeting
>  
> badging report
>> generative ai report was shown
>> objective was to wrap up full course by the end of October
>>> naresh is making a bid to go through in person training for genAi
>
> year end banding
> 
> preliminary rating
>> stack racks within peer groups
>> who is a promotion rec 6 months now
>> non promotion recommendations with comp requests
>>> open to adjustment through the end of the quarter. 
>
> comp
>> comp adjustments and promotions limited to people with 4/5s -> these are independent of the rating. 
>> managers should arrange for their solution engineers to perform at the level where they want to be. 
>
> sprint report 
>> for p in P -> get sprint report
>> pl in PL -> sends *risks*, *achievements*, *remaining work* 
>>
>> will be done each sprint
>> 
>
>Field Ops
> 
>> Not being supported by resources we need
>> 8 clusters per person
>
> People:
> 
>> 166 people
>> Omar is leaving
>> 
>> Transfers:
>> 
>>> 2 opps
>>> Brian and Lisa

20231003_01:37:11

[[c3/rizzo/peter-hwang]]  

[[c3/rizzo/joffin-manjaly]]  

[[c3/rizzo/patrick-thomas]] 

[[c3/rizzo/mayowa-omokanwaye]] 

[[c3/rizzo/damien-lutrin]]  

[[c3/rizzo/feneel-patel]]  

[[c3/rizzo/richard-bui]] 

[[c3/rizzo/damien-lutrin]] 


> [!info] Federal Staffing Standup
> 
> Anthony: RSO -> 6 months
> Ben: 100% full time. Ben is doing this until Jeremy comes back. 
> 
>> Raytheon - extended to 1/31/24
>> 
> Extensions
>> William Bui is doing DLA 2, 9 --> Cameron will do 50% of time for SE management oversight. 
>
> Adam Prys
>> Done but Adam doing optimizations. Haven't negotiated extension. {@Brian Hannon} and {@Christian} 
>
>Faneel | RDIM pilot 
>> haven't see a sale
>> send him to USMC/SoCOM
>> After thanksgiving - put hi
>
> Jeff 
>> 
>> Paradyme contractor -> use them for larger CDAO 
>> There is so much work -> needs people 
>> Three engineers from Adi. 
>
> Pull from 59 or pull from JADC2
>> Eric Qian = he is TS/SCI with Polly. Help bridge USMC for a few weeks. 
>
> Joel says that we deifne MVP. 


> [!summary] Meeting Notes
> 
> https://c3e-my.sharepoint.com/:fl:/g/personal/sean_summers_c3_ai/EXw6Gunioy1NkH_zSqIJlP0B8fD5snAxSES2e4xy-LXr3A?nav=cz0lMkZwZXJzb25hbCUyRnNlYW5fc3VtbWVyc19jM19haSZkPWIhaE84U254eXVra2VYS3BWWkhtTjNiN3Y3WFkyS2dsaEN1NjFsUHBEbE5jMmVvUkt4ZmIyZ1M1VXhMdEpGU3puRyZmPTAxUFI0SkpKVDRISU5PVFlWREZWR1pBNzdUSktSQVRGSDUmYz0lMkYwMGE0MDIwOC1iMWMyLTQ5NTQtOWJkMy1iMzk1NzNiMWNiOWEmZmx1aWQ9MSZhPVRlYW1zJnA9JTQwbXMlMkZvZmZpY2UtZmx1aWQtY29udGFpbmVy



## Links
- 