---
id: 230821
created_date: 21/08/2023
updated_date: 21/08/2023
type: daily-note
sticker: emoji//1f4d3
location: [38.918592,-77.2314723]
---

# 230821
- **ðŸ·ï¸Tags** : #08-2023 #daily 

## Notes

==230821_11:37:10==

status: aws low to high connector still open. 

proposed schedule sent over. 

Track DATA and Imagery are to be expected out of sources F&T

TODO: Certificate information from our environment. 

**TODO: Wednesday meeting. ERD documentation to be described.** 

? Did Joe sent out API docs.

{@Matthew} Text Evaluation: 

	--> working on DSP engine. Takes from UI and sends to back end (vector) store. 

	--> ELSER integration == close

	--> Manik is doing full upload to test against DSV engine. 

	--> expects to run test against elastic back end. 

{@Manik}

	--> DSP engine is Matthew 

	--> Manik is working on 

{@Ravi}

	Extract location information from a user query. Stretch goal is to demonstrate reasoning. 

	COR-96

	Location, Distance Calculation, Logic on Determining if we need distance calculations. 


	Location: done. 

	Distance: to be worked on now for the same set of questions. 



	==> low level considerations on what is needed. 

#meeting 

{@meeting Federal-Engineering Bi-Weekly Standup}
230821_03:03:59

{@jonathan} leaving

{@hires} 

4 offers

{@v8}

aTS reprioritized keeping v7 alive. v8 will take more time than anticipated. EOL for v7 until at least early next year. 

{@question}

v8 ETO package should be ready until the end of August.

{@objectives} [[badge_program_tracking]]

> quarter objectives set. senior leadership is going to take a look at objectives


> badges will be measured quarterly. 
> target for v8 training
### Questions

> Profile for candidates? 

---

> How is prodictivity tracked? 

	Discussions ongoing.
### Updates

230821_03:38:06: c3 base access was granted to contractors.

---

{@update}

230821_03:28:33[[jira]]

unified office hours added. 

	[> ref: Customer_Engineering_Solution_Enginering_Office_Hours](https://c3energy.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/SE/pages/8372256949/Solution+Engineering+Office+Hours)

 [[Solution Engineering Office Hours]]

---

Contractor access? 

> need to make sure that contractors have access to the given data. 

> contact anyone on technical oversight team and DM/SM for pertinent details. 
## TODO

 - [ ] set objective to get through v8 training.  [link](https://todoist.com/showTask?id=7400339567) #todoist %%[todoist_id:: 7400339567]%%
