---
id: 230822
created_date: 22/08/2023
updated_date: 22/08/2023
type: daily-note
---

# 230822
- **ðŸ·ï¸Tags** : #08-2023  

## Notes

---
#meeting 

### MEETING

#### NOTES

{@dsu}
{@ti31252tam31p}_230822_11:31:52

gcp certificate 

environment access 

catherine will be reaching out to Ravi 

#### UPDATES

- need more api info from Joe 
- ravi to go next week pending a couple of days delay from read on to building access. 
- CLZ data imagery needs to be validated. These shows satellite constellations.
	- {@question} is this a source that is part of the 7 ingestion sources. 
- airgap deployments in process, checking with {@ben}
#### VOCAB

--> {@vocab} thresher

--> {@}

---

#meeting 
{@Solution Engineering All Hands}

12:16:23

### UPDATES

  {@kevin} 
  Discussed field opps. Has had to share resources with opps team. 
  Field opps handles deployments, opps handles management. 

  Documentation was updated. 

  Reporting needs to be done in a way that can be done in wall street.


  <!-- Q1 Successes -->
 
  > Truck deployments

  > On-Prem Jenkins pipeline

  > Projects completing their reviews have "greener" status ...

  <!-- Pilot Milestones Early Warning System -->
  
  > At the end of the pilot - intent for customer to be able to use the application for day to day use.

### IMPORTANT

  > provide metrics for v8 productivity loss.

  > complete open air time on weekly basis.

  > advana.data.mil 
    >> --> go here in green unclass env (nipr) --> will create a profile in advana. then I have to do an access request for c3 beta tools in this environment.
    >> --> once in advana --> home --> burger --> help --> service desk --> i need to request access to something --> data tools --> beta tools testing request --> beta release products. 
    >>> in justification add EP to list tags to be provided access for. 
---

#### TODO

  > record new demo for update

  > 

## Links
- 
