---
id: 230905 
created_date: 202309051058
type: note
---

# 230905

## NOTES

> {@meeting} dsu

2023-09-05 11:41

@ravi: was porting the Geospatial Agents to the type system yesterday. 

@austin_griffin: can be source to escalate projects to base. 

@matthew: unstructured agent keeps track of conversation in memory and in a persisted fashion

> {@meeting} federal bi-weekly standup

2023-09-05 15:10 

> {@meeting} manik convo 

? Do you have any blockers to provisioning 2.2 

Query orchestrator --> calls query engine 

release 2 --> works with query engine 

does it work with query orchestrator --> UI uses query orchestrator

Matthew is running into issues with the Vector. 

? is there an environment limitation to getting your code to test?

  >> because the query engine works --> if there are problems it would come from the orchestrator.

  >> testing of the query orchestrator/engine

  >> test is normal UI testing. 

? bottlenecks? 

  >> might need someone that is non-technical that has a demo environment.

  >> need some staging environment

? {@ravi}

  environment

  app

  integration

  --> using a new Geospatial tool and location extractor

  --> default query orchestrator in notebook to work on release branch

      --> now recognizes the new tool
      --> now knows when to call the tool
  
--> not there for a merge request --> cornea/geospatialAgent

    --> get location extractor tool to work 

    --> add in all other tools for distance calculation path

    --> figure out what happens at the end

    --> platform --> 

--> genAiSearch / release2 / should work

--> 

## LINKS

https://teams.microsoft.com/l/message/19:69eb40fd0b684634b32ae98f8989e138@thread.tacv2/1693880632479?tenantId=53ad779a-93e7-485c-ba20-ac8290d7252b&groupId=2ec8ffe4-2693-4a03-a9c7-a45d5c18cf3b&parentMessageId=1693880632479&teamName=Help&channelName=V8&createdTime=1693880632479&allowXTenantAccess=false

## TODO

- add more detail to active tickets to get sense of scope
