## Link

[lefv/uiuc/lib/readme](lefv/uiuc/lib/readme.md) 

**Graduation Retrospective****

Disclaimer**  
I awutsswtware engineer that majored in CS as an undergrad. Please keep that in mind when you read my course evaluations. My favorite courses aren’t necessarily the best fit for you if you come from a different background or have different goals. I overlaid the course evaluations with my work experience because the two affected each other.**Why I enrolled in the program**  
I did my undergrad in CS and graduated in 2007. After working briefly for a startup, I joined Bloomberg and worked on infra there for 11 years. I thought about going to grad school during that period but never followed through. By 2018, I was still a senior software engineer, and I felt stuck and bored and my skills out of date. I decided to move on so I started preparing for interviews and applying for online master’s programs (UIUC, Georgia Tech, and Johns Hopkins). A few months later, I got admissions from the 3 programs and a senior-level (IC5) offer from Facebook. What taught me the most in that process, however, was the post-interview discussion with Dropbox. I was told that since I had 10 years of experience, Dropbox would not consider me for any senior-level position and would only consider me for staff-level positions, and I did not reach the staff-level bar in the interview. That was the wakeup call. Time was running out for me. It motivated me over the next few years, and I am truly grateful to Dropbox for providing me with honest and constructive feedback. It was the best interview experience I’v ever had.**Summer 2019 - Preparation**  
Having been out of school for over a decade, I wanted to get back to the rhythm of school first. I took a bunch of Coursera courses, including cryptography, some GCP stuff, and Andrew Ng’s DL intro courses.**Fall 2019 - Deferral**  
I joined FB in July 2019 and deferred the admission from fall 2019 to spring 2020 so that I would not need to onboard and start school at the same time. I joined a product team even though my previous experience was infra. The side step proved helpful later, as it helped me empathize with product engineers (Why do you make this mess and use my clean infra in such an inefficient way? Well there is a product need for it) as well as developing an end-to-end understanding of system design.**Spring 2020 - Cloud Computing Applications**  
I started the program at a difficult time. COVID happened and I had to adjust to working from home with my toddler son around. CCA is a good intro course that covered a lot of topics. The workload was significant but it was worth the time. While I was familiar with some of the topics, the course filled a lot of knowledge gaps. I think this is part of the value of formal education - you don’t know what you don’t know when you learn things on your own. At the end, I got an A+ and gained so much confidence in myself after proving I could handle work, school, and family responsibilities at the same time.**Summer 2020 - Data Visualization**  
While I didn’t think so at the time, I realized later that DV was underrated for software engineers. The way I thought about data visualization was “I’m a backend engineer. The only DV I build are QPS or resource utilization dashboards and I don’t need Tableau or D3.js for that”. That was wrong. As we progress in our career, we need to influence more people, and data visualization / story telling is an important tool for that. Pay attention in class and learn from the visualization done by the professional data scientists.  
At work, the product I worked on was deprioritized so I transferred to a different team in August. I learned to be resourceful, to handle seemingly impossible timelines, and to deal with priorities being mis-aligned between orgs.**Fall 2020 - Text Information Systems**  
This is a great course and the timing couldn’t be better for me. I just transferred to a team that owned the infra of the news recommendation. TIS gave me an intro to the ML work done by my sibling (relevance) team. Timing aside, TIS was very well organized and the prof was amazing. I also had 2 great teammates for the project. We tried to reproduce a paper. While we did not succeed (mostly because we didn’t know enough stats), we learned a lot in the process.**Spring 2021 - Deep Learning for Healthcare**  
DLH would be very challenging for the people that know nothing about DL. Fortunately I learned a little about neural networks as an undergrad and took Andrew Ng’s DL intro classes in Coursera. The best thing about DLH in my opinion is that it required a little bit of literature review. One major contribution from my research scientist colleagues (who have PhD’s) is their lit reviews about the SOTA of the industry. While MCS students obviously can’t do as much lit review as PhD students would, they would benefit from a little more of such experience, to be able to function as research scientist lite.  
The DLH project was interesting but my project teammates didn’t contribute enough. We didn’t do well and I didn’t learn nearly as much as I would like to from the project.  
At work, it was relatively smooth sailing. I gained experience in recommendation systems.**Summer 2021 - Statistical Modeling in R**  
This is my favorite course in the program. I signed up for the class not for itself but to prepare for PSL, after realizing from the TIS project that I knew too little stats. Stats 420 turned out to be a game changer by itself. It was very well taught and provided a great stats foundation. Comparing to physics, chemistry, and biology, the traditional CS undergrad education (or at least my own CS undergrad) is seriously lacking in stats and experimentation. Many software engineers don’t know how to run clean experiments or interpret experiment results. This is a problem because big tech companies run thousands of A/B tests every year. Stats 420 filled a major knowledge gap for me. The group project was good practice for what we learned in the course. I also had good teammates.  
At work, I started branching out from my work in the infra team and understanding a lot more of the relevance work of my sibling team. I proposed for and completed a meta-analysis of various A/B tests. I started to think like a DS. I had much better directions even though I could not influence my colleagues much with my directions yet.**Fall 2021 - Practical Statistical Learning**  
I like PSL. It had a very fast pace and covered many topics. I wish we had more time to go into more details, especially for unsupervised learning. It would be great to have a PSL Part 2. There were several projects in PSL and I teamed up from a former teammate of TIS. Overall, it was a good experience, although I did not have time to dive deeper into the material.  
At work, I made good progress. I achieved significant latency reduction and top line gain in my infra project and contributed to the relevance work in a meaningful way.**Spring 2022 - Parallel Programming**  
This is my least favorite course in the program. I chose PP over ABM because I thought ABM would be too niche to be useful for me. I had a lot of work experience in latency reduction over the years and expected to learn hardcore multithreading / ultra-low latency stuff and CUDA. That did not happen. Instead, I learned some odd technologies that I couldn’t imagine myself using. The homework setups were often buggy and we did not get much feedback. I spent a lot of time on this course but did not learn much. It was a waste of my time.  
Things were difficult at work. There were major reorgs and strategy changes. I moved to a different team in the org and transitioned from an infra engineer to an infra / ML hybrid. My new team had an undefined scope and little/no PM support. I learned to pitch ideas to other orgs under different VP’s, to think from their perspectives, and to align across orgs.**Summer 2022 - Data Cleaning**  
I don’t think the data cleaning course is a good fit for CS or DS students. Some topics covered by the course, such as regular expressions and simple SQL, should be well known by the CS or DS students. I think the course might a better fit for researchers in non CS/DS fields. My project group tried to make it more interesting (and more useful to us) by adding ML components.  
At work, we had another big reorg and pivot. But the good news is grad school exercised my brain muscle and got me into the rhythm of constantly learning new things quickly, and I had become comfortable getting thrown into unknown spaces, dealing with total ambiguity, and building new relationships.**August 2022 - Graduation**  
I graduated on Aug. 8, 2022. I was promoted to staff level a week later. UIUC helped me revive my stalled career.**What’s next?**  
I am going on vacation. When I come back, I plan to take the Bayesian stats courses in Coursera (again, I should have taken ABM) and read the Elements of Statistical Learning. I am also interested in a few online courses offered by Stanford, such as [https://online.stanford.edu/courses/xcs224w-machine-learning-graphs](https://online.stanford.edu/courses/xcs224w-machine-learning-graphs).